AWS gives us the Key Management Service,
or KMS, to enable us to create and manage customer master keys, or CMKs.
And we've already seen KMS a little bit in the context of
specifying the encryption keys to be used by S3 and EBS,
for example. And KMS integrates with almost every other
service in AWS that can encrypt data.
And as we'll see in the upcoming demo,
we can use KMS to not just create keys, but also enable and disable them,
schedule them for deletion, and set up what are known as key policies and
grants to control access to our CMKs within and across accounts and down to
the service and API level. And later on in this module, we'll take a look at
key policies and grants in more detail,
specifically when it comes to reading and interpreting them,
which is something the exam will expect you to be able
to do. Now when we talk about CMKs,
what we really care about is the key material or the
cryptographic material that consists of the actual bits
that make your key uniquely yours.
It's this material that performs the actual encryption and decryption
operations on your data. And by default, when you create a CMK, AWS
will generate the key material for it.
As you might expect,
this is called AWS‑generated key material. But you may
have compliance requirements that dictate how you must
generate your own key material.
Or maybe you'd like to maintain your key material
outside of AWS for additional redundancy.
KMS allows you to do this. But keep in mind, the decision you make
will impact how and when you can rotate your keys,
which is really just changing out the backing key material for
your CMK. And rotating your keys is important because you always
want to minimize the scope of damage that can be done if a key
somehow gets compromised.
So if I use the same key to encrypt data for years and years without ever
rotating it and then one day that key becomes compromised,
I have now potentially exposed years' worth of data.
On the other hand, if I rotate my keys frequently,
the only data at risk is the data that was encrypted using that particular key, and hopefully that's a much smaller subset of my data.